We went on daily patrols six, seven
hours a day. We were shot at, ambushed,
and then we had to jump out of
Blackhawks in the middle of the night
into the heart of Taliban territory.
Lindsay [music] Adario, Pulit
surprisewinning photographer and
chronicler of the extreme and the
everyday.
>> My job is to bear witness to everything
that happens in [music] conflict zones.
Women continue to deliver babies. I see
marriages, divorce, I see death [music]
and life. Do you love the job? It's
something that I do from my heart and my
soul.
[music] From Bloomberg Weekend, this is
the Michelle Hussein Show.
This latest episode of the Michelle
Hussein Show is all about what it means
to take great risks to tell other
people's stories. It's the life's work
of war photographer Lindseay Adario,
who's documented conflict from
Afghanistan to Ukraine and Sudan and
been abducted twice on assignment, once
in Iraq and once in Libya. There are not
many women in her field and she is also
a mother with two children. In a new
documentary film called Love and War,
which is currently streaming on Disney
Plus, we see her both at home and on
assignment. The home part includes her
children asking her difficult questions,
why she has to go away and whether her
work is dangerous. That combination is
what makes the film an unusually
complete portrait and as I hope you'll
agree, what makes Lindseay Adrio herself
so compelling.
Lindsay, you've worked all over the
world in so many really difficult
places. And yet the title of the film
that's out now is Love and War. That is
also part of the title of your book. And
I wondered given that you are now a war
photographer, how does love come into
it? Love comes into it in the balance
with my family. I think that um the
focus was really you have war and then
you come home to this sort of nest of
love with my children, my husband, also
my sisters and my parents. But I think
also the thing about war is that you see
these incredible scenes of love and
generosity
uh and kindness and selflessness
alongside brutality. Of course, you get
a sense of love that actually sort of
binds people in these horrific moments.
You've witnessed birth, you've certainly
witnessed death, you've witnessed grief.
All of this is part of what you do.
Yeah. I mean, my job is to bear witness
to everything that happens in conflict
zones and also outside of conflict
zones. And so, I'm seeing daily life
continue under these very difficult
circumstances. So, that means yes, women
continue to deliver babies. I see
marriages. I see divorce. I see
everything. I see death and life.
>> Do you love the job? Is that also part
of the love that's in this? I mean, I
don't think anyone could cover war
without loving the job. It's something
that I do from my heart and my soul.
It's something that I do because I
believe in it. Going back in time, I
wondered if we could talk about two
turning points. I think they're turning
points. The first of which is 911. And
you're already working as a
photographer, but is that the moment
where you become a war photographer?
>> Yeah. So I was photographing for many
years and then I moved to India in 2000
and in India I started becoming aware of
women's issues in Afghanistan.
>> Taliban had come had come to power.
Exactly. Women's lives are being
restricted.
>> Exactly. And so I was reading about that
and I was reading a lot about women's
issues in Afghanistan and as a young
woman I was curious you know what do
Afghan women think? not necessarily what
does the West think of what Afghan women
must feel, but what do they actually
think? And so I went to Afghanistan as I
was 26 years old and I borrowed money
from my sister and I started doing a lot
of reporting and photographing what I
could of women living under the Taliban.
And I ended up making three trips to
Afghanistan before September 11th. So
when September 11th happened and the US
was gearing up for war in Afghanistan,
it felt very natural for me to go there
because I was already quite familiar
with it. And so
>> you'd had a hard time, hadn't you,
selling those pictures?
>> Yeah. I couldn't give. No one was
interested.
>> No one was interested because it was
before September 11th and very few
journalists were actually working in
Afghanistan at the time. Um, photography
was illegal under the Taliban. So the LA
Times published some pictures but really
it was difficult to get them published
>> and that all changed suddenly with
international interest in the country
after 9/11. And was there a sense of
excitement or thrill then for you that
new opportunities are dawning? Well, I
think after September 11th, what became
exciting for me is that I had this
knowledge that I had sort of procured on
my own and then suddenly it was relevant
on a world stage. And so the New York
Times sent me on my first big assignment
for them which was uh covering Pakistan
sort of leading up to the fall of the
Taliban. Um and then the New York Times
magazine put me on assignment to do the
women of jihad. And so I started working
pretty consistently for the New York
Times then. But that's when you I guess
you have to learn that there are risks
involved in your work, right? You start
to have to evaluate that like covering a
war is something completely different to
you at that stage.
>> Absolutely. At that time there were
suicide bombers. There were there were
smaller scale attacks. The US started
bombing Afghanistan and then we had to
navigate how to go in. Um there was a
whole you know when do you go into a
country when the government or the
Taliban was falling you know when is it
safe to actually move into a place
that's very hostile and so it's always a
learning curve you know now with Ukraine
it's drones and so I think it's ever
evolving the other turning point I
wondered about in your career was Iraq
in 2004 because you had the first of
your abduction kidnap experiences then
take me back to that time and that place
the really chaotic period after the US
invasion the year afterwards. I mean
even leading up to the US invasion when
I was offered to go into Iraq I didn't
think I really wasn't sure I could
handle a military embed at that point. I
was still I had never been in combat. Um
I was offered a position with the 101st
Airborne. I did not take it.
>> So why did you think you couldn't handle
it?
>> Because I was a woman. I didn't know if
I'd be physically fit enough, if I'd be
as strong as the men I was going in
with. I didn't know what it would feel
like to be under fire because even
though I covered the fall of the
Taliban, it was not combat.
>> This is going to be front line.
>> Yeah. And I and I really I didn't want
to be responsible for uh holding anyone
up or being scared or I just wasn't sure
how I would respond. And so I ended up
going into northern Iraq from Iran and
many journalists did and we were sort of
covering the Kurdish territory and there
was a proxy war. It was Elansar fighting
US forces backed by Kurdish special
forces. And it was there that I was in
my first attack. That was a very close
call that actually killed a journalist
standing where I had been standing and
we were covering refugees fleeing this
area. It was a something that I've
covered a million times now. And all the
locals were warning us to leave and we
went to leave and literally a incoming
round came in and landed so close to our
car that our entire car flew forward and
as we evacuated we went to this school a
few kilometers down the road and a taxi
pulled up and said, "Is there a
journalist here?" And everyone was re
reathering and the taxi driver said, "I
have the body of a journalist in my
trunk. can someone help me identify him?
And I just I remember looking at him and
I ran behind the school and just started
sobbing and thinking, I don't want to do
this for a living. I I don't think I can
stay here. But there was no way out
because Saddam was still in power. We
couldn't go south. Iran wouldn't let us
back in. And I basically had to learn
how to deal with my fear and how to
cover war in northern Iraq. Before the
kidnapping in Iraq, there were like
these gradual close calls. Maybe that's
almost a sliding doors moment, that one,
cuz had there been a way out. I probably
would have and you might not have gone
back to that kind of zone again. But
then you were there in Iraq again and
you were out one day with other
journalists and that was when you got
held up at a at a checkpoint near
>> Fallujah. Yeah. So what happened was I
had basically spent all of 2003 and and
the beginning of 2004 in Iraq. I was
working with uh a colleague for the New
York Times and we heard there was a
helicopter down, a marine helicopter
down. So we went the only road open was
a smuggler's route and as we were
nearing the outskirts of Fallujah, we
turned a corner and literally the entire
road was full of insurgents with kafias,
their faces wrapped, uh rockets on their
backs, kalosnikovs. They started
shooting in the air. It was terrifying.
Um, they pulled all the men out of the
car. I was dressed in full hijab, so by
a headscarf, everything. And they left
me sitting in the car. And I was sort of
looking out the window watching my
colleague get led away. And
>> this is where you did something really
interesting. You said that that
colleague was your husband.
>> Yeah. I thought if I did that, they
would take us as a couple and it'd be
more complicated for them to kill us or
to figure out what to do when you insert
a woman into that situation. It's a hell
of a thing to do, Lindsay. I'm trying to
imagine being in the same position and
you're in not safety, but you're in a
more protected position in this car and
you're connecting yourself to someone
who's being led away, I guess. But you
you would probably do the same thing. I
mean, you work in teams in these places
and when you work in war zones, there is
a solidarity and so I didn't think about
it in terms of my own safety. I thought
about it in terms of how can I help this
situation
>> and I think it did help diffuse it,
didn't it?
>> I think it did in the end. I think it
did. They held us for a day. Um, it was
terrifying. Of course, we had guns to
our heads. They questioned us repeatedly
and in the end they ended up letting us
go. You've also been on embeds with the
US in Afghanistan
and when you've written about it in your
book I think one gets a sense of the
humanity of the soldiers as well as the
civilians. You were embedded I think
with one group for two months and at the
end of that some of those you'd been
with were killed. Correct. I was
embedded with the 173rd Airborne in the
Coral Valley and that was in 2007 at the
time arguably the most dangerous place
in Afghanistan. And we intentionally
asked to embed there because we wanted
to understand why there were so many
civilian casualties in Afghanistan given
the incredible technology that the US
military had. And so uh we were very
lucky because we were uh allowed as
women to go to sort of the heart of the
war. And we spent 2 months with them and
witnessed you know went on daily patrols
6 7 hours a day. We were shot at,
ambushed and then at the end we went on
operation rock avalanche which was a
battalionwide operation. We had to jump
out of Blackhawks in the middle of the
night into the heart of Taliban
territory. And it was really on these
missions that you learn what war is
about. It was one of the few times,
ironically, in 25 years of covering
conflict that I really felt like I was
at the heart of war because you're on
the side of a mountain with a group of
young American men who are told they're
fighting for democracy and you you just
sort of see the cost. Do you really
understand the complete disconnect
between the Afghans who didn't want the
Americans there and the Americans who
thought they were helping the Afghans
and young American soldiers dying and
Afghans dying? So, what was it for? And
you don't see those scenes unless you
really invest the time. But did you have
those conversations? I'm wondering what
the dynamic is like on an embed when you
can clearly see this because you know
Afghanistan and you know how the
civilians feel about the presence and
it's evident in the fact that
>> the attacks are are taking place. But do
you have those conversations with the
soldiers?
>> Not really. I mean I think for them at
that time they were sort of despondent
because they had been there so long. It
was so incredibly dangerous. I mean, we
were shot at almost every day on every
patrol. They were living in bunkers on
the side of a mountain and everyone was
really lonely. Their personal lives were
falling apart. And so, they would talk
about what are we doing here? But I
think in terms of the greater political
context, no, we never went there. It was
very much about just kind of being
there, having the trust of the soldiers,
being able to access these embeds and
these scenes.
>> Do you think your presence represents
something to them? some kind of a
semblance of a world outside. Yeah. They
kept asking us like, "You're really here
because you want to be here?" You know,
they could not believe it. I think they
were very grateful that we were there,
that the American public can see their
service, could could see what they were
going through. I think that for them,
it's like a validation of what they're
doing. one of the people who was later
killed in action. You knew that he was
planning to go home and propose to his
girlfriend and you end up photographing
Rugal his body bag. Yeah. We were
ambushed in Operation Rock Avalanche and
it was so chaotic and that we heard that
there was man down, man down, man down.
And I'm photographing and I realized I
had photographed two of the three
wounded. And then as I was making my way
to the landing zone where the medevac
was coming in to take out the wounded, I
thought, where's Rugal? Because I knew
his call sign and he hadn't come out.
And then I saw the scout team sort of
emerging from the dust carrying a body
bag. And it was in that moment that I
thought, I can't believe he's dead. you
know, this this young man who was so
alive and talking about his future and
then seeing him be carried in a body bag
was really really devastating. And the
other soldiers are crying
>> and then I was crying of course because
you make that connection and then you
think of his parents, you think of his
loved ones and you think they don't even
know yet that they've lost their loved
one. Do you ever struggle with leaving
any of that behind at the end of the
day? because you also need to you must
need to compartmentalize or do you not
think of it that way? Is the is the
emotion part of what makes you a
[clears throat] great photographer? I
think a combination. I mean I definitely
allow myself to feel um and I have I
think an extraordinary amount of
empathy. I'm constantly I think I feel
too much sometimes. I wish I wasn't so
emotional, but I think that it's
important, you know, and I think that
when I stop feeling, I really need to be
worried. But I also compartmentalize
when I go home because I I have to be
present uh for my personal life. And I
owe it to now my children and my husband
to not live in this very dark place of
sadness and war all the time. I carry it
with me. I make it a point to not just
forget about things, but I definitely
have to compartmentalize so that I can
be present. Should we go back in time
then to your birth family? Your parents
and your sisters when you were growing
up. I think because you're the youngest
of four, your older sisters have said
that they deserve some credit for what
you are because they toughened you up.
Yeah, they were really tough on me. I
mean, anyone who has older sisters knows
it's generally not an easy path. We grew
up in Connecticut and a very sort of
open eccentric household. My parents are
hairdressers and uh we had very few
rules in our house growing up, but my
three older sisters I'm now very very
close to were really tough on me. I
mean, they'd sort of they'd beat me up,
they picked on me, they'd call me names.
I were constantly sort of slamming the
door in my face and telling me I
couldn't join in. And I guess yeah, in a
sense they did me. You had to go really
far from home to carve out your own
path. I feel
>> yes I did. But your parents being
hairdressers, I mean I'm thinking
hairdressers have to be good with
people. They have to be able to talk to
anyone. And perhaps that is a thread
that you've brought into your
professional life.
>> Exactly. It was really a household where
we sort of opened our doors to anyone
and everyone. And I think that that made
me who I am in terms of being able to
walk into any situation, not [snorts] be
judgmental,
really [clears throat] be able to accept
people for who they are and where
they're at. What was the first time you
picked up a camera? How did that happen?
My father gave me a camera when I was
about
12 years old. Uh, a client of his gave
him a camera and I remember I had no
idea how to use it. So, I started
reading all these manuals of like how to
photograph. And so, um, I started taking
pictures of inanimate objects because I
was too shy to approach people. And then
I would sit on the roof and try and
photograph the moon. But it was an
awakening for me of sort of a different
way of expressing. But it really wasn't
until I graduated that I started
photographing people and really started
becoming aware of photojournalism as a
way to tell stories. But you hadn't
grown up with photojournalism. Is that
right? I think yours wasn't a house
which had newspapers coming in. You're
not looking at images of like conflicts
around the world or places around the
world.
>> Really, it was not an intellectual
family. We had no books in the house
except for the encyclopedias. And it
wasn't until really I went to university
and I was determined to do something
that was more intellectual. um obviously
because I grew up in such a creative
family and um I studied international
relations and I did not want to be a
photographer at all and then I graduated
and the only thing I wanted to do was
photograph and it wasn't until I
realized that you can photojournalism
was sort of this great marriage between
and yeah that it existed which sounds
ridiculous but if you don't grow up in a
family with newspapers and where you're
constantly sort of privy to what's
happening in the world why would I have
known about photojournalism?
>> Your craft today when you go out on
assignment and you've been on many tough
assignments including Ukraine and
recently Sudan and Gaza and other
places, but when you're going out and
you presumably want to come back that
day with something good.
>> Of course.
>> What do you set out to do? Do you set
out to think today I really want to
capture
a particular kind of scene or are you
going with the flow?
>> No. I guess what people don't understand
is photojournalism and being a
photographer is not just about taking
photos. There is so much that goes into
it. So, as I'm gearing up for a trip, I
spend an extraordinary amount of time
doing research, updating myself on
what's happening right now. But are you
looking for locations or thinking
everything? That hospital is somewhere
I'd like to go to. That kind of person
is someone I want to find. I'm looking
for themes. I'm looking for contacts.
I'm looking for hospitals. I'm looking
for schools. I'm looking for what is the
story of the moment, what is important,
and how can I advance the story, what's
not being told, what's happening to
women, uh, is rape being used as a
weapon of war? I'm looking for sort of
everything. So, when I finally get on
the ground in a country every day, I
have a list of things in my head and I'm
making notes, I'm doing reporting on the
ground, I'm constantly updating my shoot
list. And sometimes things are
serendipitous. Sometimes I'll be driving
and I'll see this extraordinary scene
and I'll stop the car and that might be
the photo for the day, but I always have
an agenda somewhere.
>> But that shoot list when you're thinking
about it in advance and making that list
is it visual that you actually have do
you think in that way rather than I
think in words. I do you think in
images?
>> I think in images. In Sudan for example,
I knew that you know food is an issue
and there is malnutrition. And so when
I'm going in, I know I have to look for
a communal kitchen, uh, one of the
emergency response rooms. I'm making a
list because they're things I've read
about. They're things that I know, uh,
help comprehensively tell a story. And
so, it's not just about showing up
somewhere and looking for pretty
pictures. There was a day early in the
war in Ukraine in February 2022 when you
were out and you ended up seeing the
aftermath, immediate aftermath, actually
being almost in the middle of a Russian
strike on evacuated civilians. Tell me
about that day because it led to a
famous image that you've taken, but I
want to know the before and the after.
>> So, it was actually March 6th, 2022.
And at that point, the situation in Bha
and Erin was a bit of a mystery.
Everyone knew the Russians were there.
They had sort of encircled the area. A
lot of civilians started fleeing to Kev
across the broken air pin bridge. The
bridge had been broken intentionally by
the Ukrainian forces to stop the Russian
advance. And so I had seen these
photographs of hundreds of Ukrainian
civilians leaving Bhan Pine across the
bridge the day before. and I didn't know
about it and I was really upset with
myself because it was a really important
moment in the conflict and so I made a
plan to go the following morning and it
felt incredibly tense and I had been
warned that there was shelling on the
other side of the bridge and so we took
cover behind this wall near the bridge
and we were photographing civilians
leaving and it was a known civilian
evacuation route. So when the first
mortar round came in, I thought, well,
the Russians know this is all civilians,
so they won't kill them. Because of
course, Putin had [clears throat] said
repeatedly, "We are not targeting
civilians." And so my security adviser
said, "Would you like to leave?" And I
said, "No, no, no. They're not going to
target this. This is all women and
children and elderly." And so I was
shooting and then another round came in
a bit closer. And so we dove for cover
behind the cement wall. And almost
immediately a third round came in and
landed with like 20 meters between me
and this family. And I saw the flash of
the round uh the mortar round hit the
pavement and it was a sort of ball of
flames and dove behind this wall. And
when I popped up, I thought that it was
a soldier that had been knocked down
because they were calling for a medic.
And as I approached, I realized that
there were children. I mean, I first
noticed these moon boots. And I thought,
I can't believe there was a family. And
I'm scanning the scene and I'm shooting
and there are still rounds coming in.
So, I know I have to work quickly. Of
course, my instinct is to leave, but I
don't want to leave because I've just
witnessed what I thought was a war
crime. And so I'm shooting and then I
work [clears throat] my way around the
scene and I see the faces and I I'm
thinking to myself, the New York Times
will never publish civilians who have
been killed, but I have to document this
just for the sake of documentation.
And I'm trying to do it in a respectful
way and in a way that's dignified. Of
course, I don't know if the family is is
dead or alive. And then we have to run
away because they're around still coming
in. And when I get back to the car, uh,
I called my editor and I said, "I've
just witnessed this and I'll send you
photographs if they're in focus." Of
course, I had no idea if I'd even
properly made pictures because I was
still in shock. And uh, the New York
Times did make a decision to run the
photos on the front page and they were
used uh on the House floor. They went
sort of viral just to prove that
civilians were being targeted. Why was
that so exceptional to publish those
pictures? Because these are these are
corpses. These are faces of corpses that
are vis visible in your picture.
>> In my many years of covering war, it is
always a huge debate whether to to to
publish the dead. Um especially when
their faces are identifiable. In this
case, I tried to shoot in a way where
their faces were not, but it wasn't very
graphic. It looked as if everyone was
sleeping. they had been knocked over by
the sheer impact of the blast that we
had only been spared because actually
the blast went in their direction and
not our direction. You said you were
shocked, but were you also angry?
>> Oh, I mean I was angry. I was upset. Uh
in the documentary you can hear me
cursing because I didn't even realize
that Andre, my colleague, had been
shooting the whole time. And so I
somehow convinced myself from the time
we got into the car to back to the hotel
that actually it wasn't really a close
call that that we were fine. We were
quite a distance. And when I got back to
the hotel, Clarissa Ward, who's a CNN
correspondent,
messaged me and said, "Are you okay?"
And I said, "Yeah, I'm fine." She said,
"I saw the attack." I said, "How did you
see the attack?" And she said, "Andre
posted it on Facebook." and my heart
sort of sank because then I realized my
family will have seen it. Uh perhaps my
children will have seen it and I
realized it actually was as close as I
thought it was. In a situation like
that, if your editor or whoever you're
trying to sell the pictures to says,
"Actually, we're not going to use that
for whatever reason."
>> Maybe even sometimes because it's not
interesting enough,
>> like in the in the brutal realities of
the way news is covered. What does that
do to you? Well, I mean on these
assignments I can't do anything really.
I mean ethically I have to just say
okay. In this case I was terrified they
would say that. And because I had
survived the attack and I knew that it
was intentional targeting. I really went
to bat because this was a situation
where I actually witnessed bracketing of
mortar rounds onto a civilian evacuation
route. And so for me it was very
important to publish these pictures.
I want to ask you to put on your
headphones and listen to something that
you said a few years before that and it
was when you had been in Libya in 2011
and you had been
>> held hostage by Gaddafi's troops in you
know really really difficult
circumstances and after you had come out
of that you went on CNN and you were
asked whether these kinds of risks and
realities of your work were worth it.
When I was blindfolded and bound and
getting punched in the face, I said,
"Why do I do this? Who cares about
Libya? Why do I care about Libya?" You
know, these are questions I ask myself
repeatedly. I do it because I believe in
it. I do it because I think our policy
makers need to have a firsthand view of
what's happening on the ground to make
informed decisions. I think it's very
important. But is it worth my life? Is
it worth doing this to the people I
love? It's a difficult question.
>> There were traumatic days. I can see
that from the descriptions you've you've
given before. But how can you
encapsulate what happened in those 8
days after you abducted in 2011 with
other journalists? Yeah. Um I was taken
hostage with three other journalists for
the New York Times, three men. We were
blindfolded, tied up, beaten up as the
only woman. I was groped repeatedly by
uh numerous men. Um, and the most
terrifying thing about being in
captivity is that you have no idea what
will come next. And so it's really about
getting through minute by minute. And
can I survive being punched in the face
and groped and breathed on? Punched in
the face. Yeah. I there was a moment in
the very beginning of the captivity
where they tied me up and put me in a
vehicle on the front line and they were
sort of laughing at us because we were
literally held on the front line while
bullets and bombs were kind of raining
around us
>> in the crossfire
>> in the crossfire. And at one point a
soldier came over and sat next to me.
And I thought very stupidly that he was
going to offer me water because even in
Iraq when we were held hostage, they
were quite kind to us. You know, they
weren't beating us. They were uh I mean
the bar is is is low, but you know, they
weren't beating us and they they were
giving us water. And so in Libya, when
he sat next to me, I looked at him and I
thought, "Okay, he's going to offer me
water." and instead he pulled his fist
back and just punched me square in the
face and I'm tied up and I remember just
putting my head down and actually seeing
stars like in the cartoons and my first
thought was oh that's where the cartoons
[laughter] get the stars from and then I
thought I can't believe this man has
just punched me in the face a bound
woman and so I just started crying and
you don't want to make any noise because
you don't want to offend anyone so I was
being very quiet and I just put my head
down and sort Tears were rolling down my
face and then he just walked away. And
another man came over and put his cell
phone to my ear and his wife was on the
phone and she said, "You are a dog." And
I said, "No, actually I'm a journalist."
And she said, "You are a donkey." And I
said, "No, Sahafa, journalist." But it
was mock executions. It was uh
threatened constantly. There were
moments where one soldier had a gun to
my face and he was caressing my cheek
with his finger saying, "Tonight we will
kill you." I mean, it was just a
constant barrage of fear and emotions.
>> And you're hearing your colleagues being
beaten up [clears throat] all the time
as well.
>> Exactly.
I know you lost colleagues in other
incidents in Libya and I remember being
there in May of 2011 close to where you
were that day but filming a documentary
so away from the front line but I
remember being in a hotel where there
was a note saying if anyone knows where
the possessions of Tim Heatherington are
um please let us know and this was
someone you know you'd been with him
another journalist
>> who was killed in that in that period
but I remember the effect on me cuz I
knew him only by name. But seeing that
[clears throat] little note on the wall
and thinking he stayed in this hotel and
one day he went out and he didn't come
back and people are looking for his
things. It was such a tiny detail but it
just made you think of the
>> the days when everything changes.
>> Yeah. I mean that Tim and I were
together in the cornal actually. We
covered operation rock avalanche
together and
>> that embed in Afghanistan.
>> The embed in Afghanistan that we spoke
about and
>> he made a film about it.
>> Yeah. He made an incredible film about
it. Restrepo. Uh, that's worth watching.
Tim was an incredible photographer. He
was a very thinking photographer. Uh,
very sensitive. And on his way into
Libya, he had been emailing me asking
for advice on what the front line was
like, how to cover it, what what he
needed to bring. And then I of course
went missing. And he came in um while I
was in captivity. And so we never
actually saw each other. And when I got
out, I was dealing with the trauma of of
what we had been through. And then about
a month after we had been released, uh,
I was in a meeting actually, and I
looked at my phone and I got a message
that he had been killed, uh, along with
Chris Hondros, who was another
incredible photographer. And their
deaths sort of sent me into this tail
spin that my own captivity had not. And
I think a lot of it had to do with
survivors guilt. you know, why do some
people live and some people don't? You
know, nothing really makes sense in
those moments and and there's no reason
why we should be alive after Libya.
There were so many moments where we
should have been dead and then they got
killed. And so, you have to ask yourself
why you survive and others don't. It's a
really tough question.
>> Do you ask yourself that? Because it's
an impossible one to to answer. So, you
you're sort of torturing yourself by
asking it.
>> Yeah, I ask myself. I asked myself in
the same vein that I asked myself why
I'm so driven to do this work despite
the costs despite the sort of emotional
toll and the fallout on my loved ones.
You've got young sons and in the film we
see you bathing the little one and he
says, "Do you have to go away like this?
And please can you only go away for one
day or three days?" And you're trying to
explain to him that some of the places
you go are really far away. But
>> that's really hard.
>> It's really hard. It's so hard. You do
keep going away. You do keep going back
to these really tough places.
>> I do. And he keeps asking me those
questions. Now he's six. Um and even the
13-year-old who will be 14, they both
ask me all the time, "Why do you have to
go?" Uh Lucas says, "Is it dangerous?"
Uh is there fighting?
>> What do you say to is it dangerous?
>> I say it's dangerous, but I know how to
stay safe and I don't go to where it's
too dangerous.
>> Is that true?
Look, there's an unpredictability in
war. You never know. Um, but there's
also an unpredictability in life. I
believe in this work and I and I believe
this is where I need to be and and I
hope that my children can learn from
that sort of dedication.
>> Would you have gone to Gaza, for
example, if journalists had been allowed
to go?
>> Yeah, for sure. For sure. And I think I
like every international journalist and
and war correspondent really struggles
with the fact that no international
media has been allowed into the Gaza.
And I think that for any of us who
dedicate our lives to this work, the
tools we have to dealing with witnessing
this trauma and witnessing this
devastation is to go and do something to
go and and at least be a platform for
the people on the ground. at least
provide a voice for them. And to have
those tools taken away is incredibly
debilitating.
>> Palestinian journalists have been
documenting the war
>> at great cost and they dying, some of
them targeted.
>> Exactly.
>> By Israeli forces,
>> over 200.
>> Do you think that there's been enough
solidarity with them? The fact that this
is the deadliest period
>> documented for the last 30 years for
journalists and most of those dead have
been Palestinian.
>> I mean, I hope so. I I think we can only
amplify their voices and we can also
point out the incredible work they've
been doing. I think that we can point
out the fact that many journalists have
been killed and targeted uh and hope
that it's not with impunity. Hope that
at some point there will be um someone
called to be responsible for this. Um I
think the fact that uh most Palestinian
journalists are sort of dismissed as
being part of Hamas, which is
ridiculous. and for us to stand up as
international journalists to say no,
these are accredited journalists. These
are people risking their lives to bring
the world the truth. Can we talk,
Lindsay, about images and what you've
seen over your career? Because you began
your work in the age before social media
and the fact that we live in a world
where people scroll from one short form
video to another. That's how many people
consume information and and news for
that matter. What does that mean for
your work? Yeah, it's a very different
thing because when I first covered
conflict, we were the only way that a
story could get out. People really
relied on us to tell their stories. Uh
the responsibility felt even greater.
Now we're in a situation where um people
can disseminate their own stories. We're
sort of inundated by images and
reporting. I think the main thing that
we have to be conscious of is it's so
important to understand where you're
getting your information. And so when
you see something on social media, one
cannot automatically take it as truth.
And now in the age of AI, it's hard to
verify images. Uh you cannot just look
at an image and know that it's reality.
And so I think that the role of
journalists is more important than ever
because we really have a responsibility
to make sure we're doing our job as
responsible journalists that we're doing
the factchecking we're getting the facts
straight and I think that it is extra
it's very important. [clears throat] Is
it harder for an image that you or
anyone else takes to have lasting
impact? I'm remembering the National
Geographic cover with the young girl in
Afghanistan
>> Curry. That's right. And then the image
of the refugee child drowned on the
beach.
>> Oh. Uh and Vietnam. You're mentioning
also Alan. Yes. So images like that
which you and I both remember. Is it
harder now when again we have so much
coming in for anything to have that kind
of impact?
>> Well, I don't know. Eon Kurie was at a
time where we did have social media
already and that image rose to the top.
>> But it was before Tik Tok.
>> It was it was before Tik Tok. But I
think we were at that point already
inundated by images. You know, there
were so many images from the refugee
crisis coming out. And that image was so
poignant because of the the position of
that little boy, the fact that he looked
like he was sleeping. He could have been
any one of our children. It's very
difficult with images because people
need to find a window to relate. They
need to find a way in to an image. And
so if it's too graphic, often people
will turn away because it's too hard
right now, especially right now.
>> And do you think of that as you're
taking the picture?
>> I do think of that.
>> Have to frame it slightly differently to
almost sanitize it a bit.
>> No, what I do is I'll shoot in many
different ways. I mean, I will shoot the
sort of pure graphicness and I will also
just shoot I'll try to make it more
palatable. I'll try to make an image
that I think the public can handle and
that the New York Times will actually
publish because most people will not
publish an image that is gratuitously
graphic.
>> But what is the change you've seen? I'm
wondering if the appetite for the
graphic image is less now.
>> Well, the appetite is less, but actually
the tolerance is more because we see so
many graphic images. If you look at the
images that have come out of Gaza, I
mean, they're horrific because what's
happening there is horrific. I mean, you
see children being pulled from the
rubble. You see mothers over their
children. There's no end to the horrors
we see coming out of Gaza. It's not to
say that those images will be published
in print, but they certainly are out
there. And I think we as a public are
used to seeing them over and over. And
that's a pretty devastating place to be.
you know where we are at a place where I
can look at an image and say that is the
most horrible thing I've ever seen but
actually I saw that same image yesterday
in these interviews I normally ask
people about their weekends but I feel
[laughter] like in with you it's yeah
you're laughing because I I get it like
it's not a weekend what's a weekend but
is there a key dividing line between
being on assignment and being at home is
that the fundamental um dividing line in
your life when I'm working there there
are no weekends obviously. Um and when
I'm home, I'm still working all the
time, but I do try to carve out time
with my kids. Sometimes my 13-year-old
wants nothing to do with me anyway, so
it doesn't really matter, but I'm there
and I'm cooking for them and I'm I'm
trying to be present.
>> But the work doesn't stop because you're
doing the captions and you're processing
the images and you're probably thinking
about the next the next assignment.
>> I'm planning the next assignment and I'm
writing another book right now. So
that's that's taking up a lot of time.
>> And you exercise. We see you exercising
in the film. And it really made me think
about the level of physical fitness.
That is not a nice to have. It's
essential for your job. It is. I mean,
most people who do my job are men. Um
most of them are young men. And so I uh
am in my 50s and I have to be fit. I
have to be able to carry gear. I have to
be able to run with it. I have to just
not let my physical uh fitness ever get
in the way of of work.
>> How do you switch off?
>> I switch off when I'm with my friends
and family. You know, I make a conscious
effort to come home from 6 weeks in
Ukraine and throw a dinner party for 25
people because it makes me happy. I
mean, it makes me happy. But I mean the
complexities of human life and your
domestic life and human arrangements
that that can be messy in a way that
perhaps when you're assign assignment
you're you're in a certain mode.
>> Well, when I'm on assignment, I try not
to think too much about my kids and my
family because then I feel like it will
affect too much the decisions I'm making
on the ground and I have to really stay
focused. And so I'm not facetiming with
my kids every day. I'm not talking to my
husband. I'm trying not to be too
distracted by my kids really. But when
you picture them, because you do think
visually when you picture the home life,
the perfect
weekend, the perfect home moment, what
do you see? What's the image in your
mind's eye?
Just sort of me in the kitchen cooking
or baking and the kids coming in and out
doing their thing. We have a very
unconventional life much like how I was
raised because we let the kids have a
fair amount of freedom in in deciding
how they want to spend their weekends.
But your life has these two extremes.
>> Yeah, does
that's the way you want it. I presume I
don't really have a choice. I mean, I I
think when I decided to have a family,
that meant living uh between two very
dramatic extremes, and it meant sort of
being torn always between these two
worlds. Lindsay Adario, thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you.
[music]